feat(jinja): add advanced temporal filter functionality (#30142)
apache/superset: docs/docs/configuration/sql-templating.mdx

- `columns`: columns which to group by in the query
- `filter`: filters applied in the query

> - `from_dttm`: start `datetime` value from the selected time range (`None` if undefined) (deprecated, use `get_time_filter` instead)

Reviewer: Maybe say "deprecated beginning in version 4.1.0" since we don't have versioned docs?

Author: Good call - I'll deprecate as of 5.0, as this will likely not be cherried into the 4.1 branch.

    order by lineage, level
```

**Time Filter**

The `{{ get_time_filter() }}` macro returns the time filter applied to a specific column. This is useful if you want
to handle time filters inside the virtual dataset, as by default the time filter is placed on the outer query. This can

> have considerable performance implications, as many databases and query engines are able to optimize the query better

Reviewer: ```suggestion
considerably improve performance, as many databases and query engines are able to optimize the query better
```

Reviewer: clarifying that the performance implications are positive

if the temporal filter is placed on the inner query, as opposed to the outer query.

The macro takes the following parameters:
- `column`: Name of the temporal column. Leave undefined to reference the time range from a Dashboard Native Time Range
  filter (when present).
- `default`: The default value to fall back to if the time filter is not present, or has the value `No filter`
- `target_type`: The target temporal type as recognized by the target  database (e.g. `TIMESTAMP`, `DATE` or
  `DATETIME`). If `column` is defined, the format will default to the type of the column. This is used to produce
  the format of the `from_expr` and `to_expr` properties of the returned `TimeFilter` object.
- `remove_filter`: When set to true, mark the filter as processed, removing it from the outer query. Useful when a
  filter should only apply to the inner query.

The return type has the following properties:
- `from_expr`: the start of the time filter (if any)
- `to_expr`: the end of the time filter (if any)

> - `time_range`: The time range as defined on the

Reviewer: This line is incomplete -- defined on the what?

Here's a concrete example using the `logs` table from the Superset metastore:

```
{% set time_filter = get_time_filter("dttm", remove_filter=True) %}
{% set from_expr = time_filter.from_expr %}
{% set to_expr = time_filter.to_expr %}
{% set time_range = time_filter.time_range %}
SELECT
  *,
  '{{ time_range }}' as time_range
FROM logs
{% if from_expr or to_expr %}WHERE 1 = 1
{% if from_expr %}AND dttm >= {{ from_expr }}{% endif %}
{% if to_expr %}AND dttm < {{ to_expr }}{% endif %}
{% endif %}
```

Assuming we are creating a table chart with a simple `COUNT(*)` as the metric with a time filter `Last week` on the
`dttm` column, this would render the following query on Postgres (note the formatting of the temporal filters, and

> the missing filters on the outer query):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the absence of time filters on the outer query):
```
